Let's look at this top bar and
see some of the options we have.
We've got a refresh button that
does what you think it does.
I'm not gonna waste our
time on zooming in and out.
We've got these light and dark mode,
you can kind of see here as well,
there's nothing that supports it.
This is just the background though, so you
have different backgrounds if you want to
see how it contrasts
with different things.
We've got the ability to have a grid, I've
never used that on purpose in my life,
but it's there.
This is super important
different viewports, and
we'll talk a little bit like how to force,
a given story into a viewport because,
this button doesn't really matter.
But when I get to, if I was doing more
like, above and beyond the design system
portion when we're doing kind of like,
molecules, organisms, parts of design
systems, like if I did whole pages in here
or like larger responsive like elements,
you can actually one, easily go see
that thing in isolation, right?
Two, you can force like a story to be in
a various viewport, which is great for
your visual regression tests, right?
Because nobody likes that world where
they make a tweak for a hotfix for
a bug and they end up breaking something
on mobile, so on and so forth.
Because I definitely didn't get bitten by
that bug where the CEO tried to pull up
our UI on his Android
phone last week at all.
So, and you can actually change
some of the, you can rotate it, so
on and so forth, right?
You've got this measurement,
which is kind of like the Chrome DevTools,
which is pretty cool.
And you've got this outline around it,
again,
I'd love to tell you that I've used
that more than once in my life.
This is an add on for the accessibility,
so we'll talk about that later.
You can also have links and fullscreen it
and all that kind of fun stuff as well.
So what we wanna do is we wanna
add the themes plugin, right?
And we also, I need to do a little bit
of which amounts to structure dark mode.
There are two ish, three technically,
let's go with two,
philosophical ways of
implementing dark mode.
One is you would like to provide a toggle,
right?
That lets people turn dark mode on or
off, right?
That sounds very,
it doesn't even sound complicated.
That is basically you just put
a CSS class or a data attribute
on the body of your document and
then either, toggling on or off.
The other one is, media queries, right?
Like the idea of their whole OS is set to
dark mode, then you can do that as well.
We chose to have a toggle mostly because
ours is still in beta and
I wanted a toggle.
[LAUGH] Right, so
that one could toggle it on and
off because I'm not totally confident
that we got every edge case just yet.
I really definitely like,
where you started but for
all that dark mode stuff and
it definitely, was invaluable, but
then also exposed that,
it's a lot harder than we thought.
But we'll talk about some of
the strategies around that in a second.
So we do need to do a little bit of both,
both a little bit of tailwind tweaks,
as well as some storybook tweaks.
And so we'll cover those both together.
Again, if you just want
to use the media query,
there's nothing to do on the tail inside.
And if you write your own bespoke CSS,
there's both nothing to do and
everything to do simultaneously.
So we'll just talk about the little piece
of a tail and tweak that we need to do.
Here, which is to say how dark mode works,
so
by default they use the media query.
And so
what we wanna say is that it's a class.
And then for reasons I don't understand,
I chose to use a data attribute.
I know why you chose to
use a data attribute.
So instead of using dark mode class,
we use a data attribute of like data,
mode is dark or
you can data theme is dark.
The reason we did that is because when
we started, I found out that we used
the class dark on various elements
to insinuate, this is a card,
this is a dark card even in light mode,
and all sorts of stuff broke.
So I did this as a data attribute, because
I was transitioning a code base from
existing with only one mode to having two.
You could choose to just use a CSS class,
it doesn't really matter.
But so I'm gonna say, this has got
to be a string, I'll say data.
This is just, it's any selector that we
would want here and mine is set to mode.
So any selector goes here.
So we're gonna say, hey,
tailwind you're gonna do dark mode with
a class really means CSS selector.
And this is the CSS selector that you're
gonna use when using that functionality.
If you have your own CSS then, you don't
need to do the darkMode tweak here,
and we'll show how to do it in a second.
This is the only tailwind specific part
that we're gonna cover right now, sweet.
And we've got that in place,
so then we're gonna do this.
We're gonna add in this
idea of the themes.
And so I'll just make a new tab here real
quick and there's two ways to do this.
You could do an npm install, and
then add it in yourself into that main.ts.
Or you could do this mpx
storybook at latest,
and we say add @storybook.
Lots of opportunities for typos here.
Add storybook/addon-themes.
All this does is it does two things.
It installs it, and
then it adds it to that main.ts.
It's already installed on my end,
so we've got that here.
Let's go into main.ts, we've got
the add on themes, cool, cool, cool.
There are some options that it will give
you if it's the very first time you're
installing it,
we can say like how you want this to work.
A concept that we're gonna talk about
a little bit later is this idea of
decorators, right?
But we'll see it a little
bit in this global file.
Which is a decorator is something
that you wanna wrap that story in.
Reasons that you would use decorators,
and we'll see the first one later,
is let's say that thing needs the context
API because you're using a motion or
some CSS and
JS framework that uses a React theme or
a self theme context for
the theming, then you would need it.
If you want to just surround something in,
A list items in a larger list or
anything you want to do,
anything you want to surround every story
with, you could use a decorator for.
And all it does is it just gives you
the ability to put a parent over
a given story.
You would put it in preview.ts
if you wanted it to be,
either main or preview.ts if you
wanted it to be for every story,
you can put on the meta for
just that set of stories.
You can do an individual story,
it doesn't really matter.
So we've got the add-on themes in here.
And next we are going to go ahead and
add a decorator in here as well.
I'm actually gonna import
what I need first, and
there's just the @storybook/ add-on
themes has some utility methods,
and you can take a lucky
guess what they do.
So I'm gonna do import and I'm gonna do
the trick of @storybook/addon-themes.
And the reason I do that first is so
that I get intellisense in here.
And so you can see there's three
helpers in here with ThemeByClass.
Anyone wanna take a lucky
guess what that one does?
WithThemeByData attribute, and
withThemeFromJSXProvider for
those of you who love your CSS and
JS, cool.
And then all we're gonna say here is,
decorators.
And you can pass it in by itself, but I
need to give it some options in this case.
So I'm gonna say that my defaultTheme,
Is light.
Now clearly for a set of stories,
you can take this down one level and
do dark so on and so forth.
And I'm gonna say I have two themes.
Light and what that ought to be.
In this case, light is light and
dark is dark.
But in my actual code base, it's day and
night because we were clever and
we thought it was cute at the time,
and now I live with it.
And then what the attribute actually
is in this case, so in this case,
I think, TypeScript is gonna get angry
with me if I remember correctly but no.
So we've got the attribute
name in there as well.
And I think that should be what I need
to get that running, so I've got it.
The things I need to do was make
sure it's in this array here and
then actually have the decorator go
around every single story saying, hey,
I've got themes, these are my themes.
Here's the default, here's the data
attribute that you need to swap the theme,
and everything you need to know.
And then that will be inherited
by every single story.
There it is, light theme.
Turn it off and
turn it back on was the answer to the,
what went wrong there, cool.
So now we have dark mode and
we have light mode.
Again, there's not necessarily a lot
of tailwind need to know that you
need to know.
The only where that dark mode is currently
defining anything is tailwind comes,
we actually mostly replace our tailwind
themes, I'm not using a lot from tailwind.
One of the things I like it for is for
both responsive breakpoints and themes,
I can just do dark colon, small colon,
and I have to write media queries.
And the idea that it calls out
any CSS class we're not using,
that's the kind of large
reason we're using it today.
But yeah, so dark modes just changes right
now the text and the background color.
Mark.
>> Have you ever needed
more than two themes?
>> We will.
Right now we have light and dark mode, and
I'll show you a strategy that we're using
for that right after in a little bit, so
we plan on adding high contrast mode for
accessibility issues.
And then, possibly, our design language
happens to be predominantly black and
white with a little bit of indigo.
So high contrast mode is a few places
where we need to do some tweaks.
But for color blindness,
we don't have a really big surface area
because our designers happen to
like black and white as the theme.
So yeah, for us it's like,
I used to work on a product where
the theming was a thing that we
provided to the end user and
they could put it whatever
theme they want in there.
I will never mention that to our current
customers cuz they'll ask for it and
then I will have to live with it.
So, for us, light, dark,
high contrast are the ones.
But like we said before, if you are a
company that's made lots of acquisitions
and you need to have a theme for
every different brand, so on and
so forth,
you might end up with more than one.
>> Using the toggle that was in there
already, not the one we just created.
>> Yeah.
>> Overrode our light
dark theme in the top.
So the one that comes for default?
>> Yeah.
>> On the top, if that's set,
you have to hit clear-
>> Interesting.
>> Selection.
>> Maybe that was my issue to too.
>> [INAUDIBLE] To that and then,
yeah, otherwise that didn't-
>> Yeah, the background was set.
I was probably messing around with
that before and there's no, yeah,
I didn't clear it out and
then turn it off and turn it back on.
Fix that because it's stored in the URL,
but yeah, that's an interesting point.
Because I was like just showing off that
you can change the background as the tour,
I set a background and then you do need
to make sure you clear that background
especially when my dark mode presently
only includes a background, right?